So once again what is a symmetric algorithm in a symmetrical algorithm.
The same key is used to encrypt and decrypt the message.
An example of a symmetric key algorithm would be a yes.
Notice both the sender and the receiver using the same algorithm as well as the same key.
This can cause a major problem because both the sender and the receiver must know what the key is and
they need a method to communicate this.
The problem is how to watch telly securely what the key is if I don't have a secure tunnel established
as yet I need the key to establish the secure tunnel but I cannot establish a secure tunnel until we
both know what the key is.
So this means that we need to communicate the key out of band I need to phone you by I need to is a
mess you or I need to use some outer band method to tell you what key to use.
So as an example if I'm in the UK and you're in the US and we want to set up a private VPN between a
route in the UK and abroad in the US I would have to phone you and let you know what key to use.
That's fine when we have a simple VPN but it doesn't scale well when we have thousands of routers.
It is an advantage of a symmetrical key algorithm the good symmetric ciphers of fast secure and easy
to implement using modern microprocessors and therefore tend to be used for bulk encryption.
Here are some examples of symmetric key algorithms days triple days a year and blowfish unexplained
data encryption standard or DayZ triple days and advanced encryption standard or a yes in more detail
in upcoming slides.
But for now please realize that we still use symmetric key algorithms in VPN today because of the advantage
that they can encrypt bulk data quickly in modern microprocessors so that encryption standard or days
is a symmetric encryption algorithm where the same key is used by the sender and receiver.
So notice the sender uses days with a key of one two three and the receiver uses days with the key of
one two three.
It was developed by IBM and the US National Security Agency in 1975.
It has a fixed key length of 56.
Let's remember once again that a class A IP address gives you two to the power of 24 combinations days
gives you two to the power of the six combinations so the algorithm was good but the key length doesn't
meet today's security requirements and it's recommended that you do not use days in today's corporate
environments.
The problem is is that it's susceptible to brute force attacks by 1998 it days encrypted message was
decrypted within 56 hours and by nineteen ninety nine it took just over twenty two hours to crack.
Once again DayZ is not recommended in today's environments around the same time.
Triple DayZ was developed triple DayZ is also asymmetric key algorithm with the same uses triple days
and the receiver uses triple days and they have the same set of keys.
In this case they are three keys the way triple based works is that clear text data is encrypted with
key one that encrypted text is then decrypted with a different key key too and then it's encrypted with
a third key.
In this case key three so the data is encrypted then decrypted and then encrypted that with different
keys.
Now if key one and key three are the same.
This would result in a hundred and twelve but key length if key one and key three are not the same it
would result in 168 but key lengths as you can see the key length is greater than days which was fifty
six bits in length.
Please note at CCNY level it's not expected that you understand the details of all these algorithms
but I mentioned them here because I find it's easier to understand a VPN work if you have a bit of knowledge
of how the algorithms function.
A yes or advanced encryption standard is the recommended symmetric key algorithm to use today in corporate
environments once again the sender and the receiver use the same algorithm as well as the same key as
this is a symmetric key algorithm.
A Yes comes in different variants.
You've got a hundred twenty eight but eight hundred ninety two.
But an A is 256 but a year was announced in 2001 and became a federal government standard in May of
2002.
It was approved by the NSA for top secret information it once again is a recommended algorithm for BP
and in today's corporate environment the details of these three algorithms are available on the internet.
Have a look at Wikipedia and other sources for more detailed information of how the algorithms work.
But for now I just have an appreciation that is triple days and a yes or symmetric key algorithms that
can be used for bulk encryption and decryption of data on asymmetric key algorithm uses a different
key to encrypt and decrypt.
So for instance the sender would be using a Asymmetric algorithm like RSA.
The receiver would be using an algorithm like RSA.
But please notice different keys are used to encrypt and decrypt the data asymmetric key algorithms
solve many of the long standing problems with symmetric key algorithms like how do you exchange the
secret keys in the first place with a symmetric key algorithm.
For instance how do we send the decided private key to each other without it being intercepted when
using a symmetric key algorithm once again without a secure channel.
There is no way to establish a secure channel.
I need to securely tell you for instance what the shade key is in a symmetric key algorithm that we
both need to know what the shade secret key is to establish a secure channel to be able to securely
send the key to one another.
But we can't set up the channel because we don't have a key yet.
That means we have to tell each other what the key is out of band.
Like by phoning one another asymmetric key algorithms allow us to solve this problem because different
keys are used for encryption versus decryption also note asymmetric key algorithms have key links far
greater than symmetric key algorithms the key links vary from 512 but to 2048 bits a lot of this information
is out of the scope of the course but it's worth knowing so that you can understand how the peons work
with an asymmetric key algorithm.
You firstly generate what's called a private key.
Now the word private means that you don't tell anyone else what your key is.
In other words a private key is kept to oneself.
No one else gets told what your private key is a public key is derived from a private key so firstly
a device like Arata will generate a private key.
It will then generate a public key from its private key please note a private key cannot be generated
from a public key a public key can only be generated from a private key.
Now this is not a math course so we're not going to get into the mathematics of how public and private
keys are derived we as network engineers just need to have an appreciation of how they work and then
how to configure them in networking environments so to sum up you create a private key which you keep
to yourself you then generate a public key from your private key your public key is then shared with
the world now something encrypted with your private key can only be decrypted by your public key and
something encrypted with your public key can only be decrypted with your private key So for instance
if a on the left wants to send something to be on the right.
The way it works is as follows B generates a private key a public key is then generated from these private
key B then shares is public key with a when a wants to send something to be a encrypts the data with
B public key which a now knows.
The only key that can decrypt something encrypted with B's public key is B's private key and B is the
only person that has these private key.
So a encrypts the data with these public key and sends it to B.
B is the only device or person with these private key so only B can decrypt the information can get
really confusing so let me say it again if I want to send something to you that only you can decrypt
I would encrypt the data with your public key if you want to send something to me that only I can decrypt
you would encrypt that data with my public key because only my private key would be able to decrypt
something encrypted with my public key.
Now how does this apply to VPN while in 1976 two gentlemen Duffy and Hellman discovered a way out of
the secure channel dilemma.
In other words the issue we had with the transmission of a shared secret across an insecure medium can
be solved by using Duffy Hellman they found out that by using a different key certain one way functions
could be undone.
This solution called public key cryptography takes advantage of a characteristic of prime an almost
prime numbers.
Specifically how hard it is to find the two factors of a large number that has only two factors both
of which are prime.
This uses things like quadratic residues.
Now unless you're a mathematician that will have no meaning I'm sure.
Now once again we as network engineers do not need to understand the math behind all of these algorithms.
We just have to know when to apply the algorithms in production environments.
So just understand that Duffy Hellman discovered a way to securely create a secure channel to exchange
a shared secret key which is required by algorithms like a strip all days and days a cross an insecure
medium like the Internet securely so that no hacker can find out what the shared secret is.
In brief the way Duffy Holman works is as follows the peers in other words the two devices involved
in a VPN can yield or create a shared secret key based on the other peers public value and their own
secret.
In other words if you and I are going to set up a VPN and we need to create a shared secret key between
us by using complicated mathematics we can create a shared secret securely without other people being
able to work out what the key is you need at least one secret value to perform this function or calculation.
Remember secret or private keys are not exchanged with other people so the attacker has no secret values
and needs to perform a discreet logarithm of a public Valley which is computationally infeasible.
In other words in theory impossible.
So for example yes empty it takes data that we want to send securely using an algorithm like a yes a
yes being a symmetric key algorithm requires that the same key be useful encryption and decryption.
We want to be able to work out a shared secret key between the sender and receiver securely across an
insecure medium.
With all kinds of undesirables trying to sniff the network and work out what the password is.
So both peers need to establish a shared key securely and Duffy Hellman gives us the ability to do this
by using public key cryptography in other words private and public keys we can work out a shared secret
securely without others being able to see that so when two peers want to set up a VPN they use Duffy
Hellman to work out a shared key the reason why we need that shade key is symmetric key algorithms like
a is require that the same key be used on both sides.
And the reason why we use a yes is because it's good for bulk encryption once the Duffy Hellman key
exchange has taken place.
We can create a shared secret for a yes and therefore a yes in the shade shaky can be used for bulk
encryption of our data which can be sent across the insecure Internet securely and only decrypted by
the receiving party.